What I'm gonna do is I am going
to create a whole bunch of
components out of these icons.
And that is very easy to do.
If you look, there's a bunch of icons.
I can go ahead and
select all of these frames.
And you'll look I have
a little carrot here now.
What does that do?
I can create one component
of all of these icons.
I can create multiple components,
that's the one we want.
Or I can create components set,
which there is a time and a place for.
This is not the time.
I'm going to do it in
this page in a second, so
it is the place, it's just not the time.
So we'll create multiple components and
look, they all get these,
fine little diamonds.
If I go in to this page,
you can see here are all
of my components and
I got the button from earlier, right?
That I nested in some insane way.
So I'm going to go to
the main component and
we're gonna update this button so
that it supports having an icon.
Right?
And the ability to like
swap out set icons.
So let's actually change
this button a little bit.
Let's make it, let's start by default
having a secondary button here.
So will give this one a stroke.
Of a little bit of a darker color.
We'll change the fill to
the lighter color, and
we'll change the label to that
same darker color, right?
Okay, cool, we got a button and
we would love the idea of having
an icon in here too, right?
So we can do is, this is auto layout.
So most of it's there.
What I can do, is I can drag in this icon.
And that's a little big.
Right?
And so now could I change the stroke on
the, as I said before, selecting all of
the same property is great when you need
to change the stroke in a bunch
of icons asked me how I know.
Right?
But we'll ignore that for a moment.
And we've got this button and so
the trouble with this button is that,
they're all gonna have this bug on them
and maybe I want other icons in the back,
maybe I want a cool skull that I made.
I didn't make it.
I stole it from the side,
which is open source.
And I want to be able
to swap them out right?
And so what I can do is I can
actually go ahead and see this.
I have that bug in there.
I can say create an instant swap property,
right?
We'll call it icon.
Maybe by default it's bug, you can
choose a different one if you want.
Plus sign skull.
Cool.
And then you can do this idea.
So you can swap any component out,
any nested component out with
another component, right?
But what you can do, since that's a lot
of power, Figma doesn't give you a great,
you can get away with a lot of stuff here,
but what you can do,
you can't stop people from
doing certain components.
We can say, here's the preferred
list that I will show you.
So, you can go in here and it's like,
hey, actually you can swap it out
with either any icon or
depending on what your designers want.
Only a certain subset of icons are right
for the button, a certain subset icons or
for the nav,
a certain subset icons are here.
You can basically select those icons,
so we can say check.
We're not gonna have
a hashtag been a link button.
That seems good, info.
I don't know success.
Great.
So we have this in place.
So now I've got my button here.
And if I go I can drag another button in.
And you can see that now this button
has the option of swapping it out with
the different icons.
Right?
The other thing I could do is I
think we saw before I'll show
you from the other angle which is
even if we look at this layer,
the skull that goes up to component.
Let's see, we want this layer,
we can also say show icon.
Sets up the false by default.
And so now I have a button where
I can say, show me the icon,
and if we show the icon,
what icon you want.
We get the idea to have more fluid and
reusable components cause now we have
a button, we can toggle whether or
not we want to show an icon, we can switch
it out between a preferred list of icons,
could they do some dark stuff
like go outside preferred,
go into component properties and find the
badge and shove it in there, they could.
Right, but
that's just like just yell at people.
We a lot of times look for
technological solutions when
yelling at people is an option.
And so yeah,
it's not totally foolproof, but
at least getting guided in the right
way is super helpful as well,
and so we can create a set of components,
right?
The other thing,
if we look at this system,
you'll notice that there's
this idea of variance as well.
Because one of the things we know is not
only, especially buttons, buttons are.
If we think about the number of buttons
in a design system, it gets out of,
this isn't even all of them.
If I look at the design system we have,
we have way more buttons than this.
Right, you've got your primary, your
destructive, and your secondary buttons.
Great, like those are just, and
I made those different components, and
then you can swap between them
depending on the organization.
So, one thing I'll show
you is you grab a button,
I'll grab the primary button.
And you'll notice that when I'm
dragging this primary button,
it will actually let me swap it
out with a different one, right?
And basically, I could actually swap
it out with any component the same way
I could do it with that icon before,
but it will use the organization be like,
yeah, this is on the button page.
So, why do you want to swap this button
out with a more different button, right?
You can do that.
The ghost button is one that
doesn't look like a button.
I don't make the rules, I just took
what we did in our app and reapplied it.
You swap it out to primary, I can swap
it out to a destructive button as well,
and I can switch it between
those different buttons.
So that's one variation on a button,
right?
It's all the different kinds of and
you know there's more button.
There's like rounded
button in some places.
There's links that are technically
look like buttons but
they're really a link H anchor text hrefs.
It's a mess.
Lots and lots of buttons.
There's buttons inside of input
fields as buttons all over the place.
But not only are there
all sorts of buttons, but
those buttons can be in different states.
That button could be hovered over.
That button could be currently pressed on
an active, that button could be disabled.
That's probably other states
the button could be in.
So if we wanted to, let's say,
create all those various things.
So I would say I would make a different
component that is very similar for
your destructive, your primary,
your secondary buttons and
style them the way that you want.
They used to be a bunch of hacks, like
using one base component that you don't
use as the prototype for all your buttons.
So if you change the border
radius on one of the buttons,
it would affect all of them.
Now we have variables, so I would just
store those values in a variable unless
it's something you truly can't.
But, you can create multiple buttons, but
then the idea of a variant I would only
be like, no, this is a different
state of the same button.
So cause otherwise you end up with
a variant list that is like really gnarly
and complicated.
If it is both the difference
between the primary, secondary,
destructive button and then also
the hover and act of state, right?
It's unwieldy.
I've tried it.
It's not great.
And it also there's a lot of limitations.
You make a different component for
each one you use the ability to swap out
components and instant swap to switch
between the different components your
variants are for, like the different
states, hover, active, disabled.
Even disabled I might switch to
a different button cause I've done it both
ways and I always regret
using disabled as a variant.
Cool.
So, I can either start out with
the different styles of buttons like I
have here.
And I can design them all just by
duplicating and changing the parts I want.
If I already have the component I
can hit this button right here,
which is add variant.
Right now I have two buttons, right?
It's called property one and variant one.
So for instance, we could rename
this state and variant two,
we're gonna call hover and
variant one default is great.
So then what we can do is we can go ahead
and change something about this one.
So let's say that when they hover over it,
we're gonna change the fill
to be slightly darker, right?
So this is one button but
if I drag one of these in now.
You can see that I've got
the property like the show icon,
stuff that we had before.
And then I also have default and
hover, right?
And again, that's one button in
the various states that it can be in.
And so that's typically
where you use the variance.
It's really it's a fine art of like,
do you want to be able to like where
the component property so for
instance, an input field is required.
I wanna show a little red dot next to it.
Maybe I'll make that a component property
of showing and hiding the red dot but
like, theoretically,
I wouldn't try to say a variant of
a text input is that number input.
I would make those separate.
Distinct things that you would
implement in code differently should be
distinct components,
but the hover state or
the active focus state of an input
field or button are variants thereof.
And then what's kind of cool about this is
then you can then make them interactive
and that's useful for prototyping.
So like theoretically no one's
gonna put a button in a hover state
in their design, right?
And then you so
like then why would we even do this?
Where it becomes kind of powerful is if
you switch this over to the prototype tab.
You can go to interactions.
And you can say,
let's see while hovering.
Change it to the hover state.
So now if this component is
using any prototypes, right?
And someone hovers over
a button component,
do you know what's gonna happen?
It's gonna switch to the variant
that is the hover state, right?
So you get the idea we can start
to simulate and get a feel for
all these things.
We'll look at prototyping at the very end,
but
it kinda gives you some
of the initial pieces.
One kind of, we won't do it now, but
I'll give it as an exercise for you later.
Like at home, at homework, if you will.
Is like you can do that like
having a checkbox of unchecked and
checked, right you can create
interaction as unclick.
Switch it from the unchecked state
to the checked state, right?
All of those kinds of various things that
you might seek to do like you can't build
a full UI and figure it out but
again, like it's super useful.
For the product manager and designer to
then go to customers validated design
before you ask for API's that you don't
actually need from the back end team.
And before you spend all that
work building just to redo it,
you can create a pretty like,
we'll see one at the very end.
You can create a pretty compelling
prototype using figma prototypes, but
we can create some of these
basic status variables.
But I will say that for
the most part, you'll notice that
I still have one button in here.
Right?
And so
if I decided no,
I don't believe you, Steve.
I wanna make the secondary button and
the destructive button and
all those things variants.
Cool.
Get ready drag we'll see one button here,
drag it in and have to click to change the
state every time and good luck wiring up
all those interactive activities,
like interactive pieces of the component.
It's going to be very hard for
you and it's probably not worth it.
So while it might feel bad to have
a bunch of components that look the same,
like Figma is kind of like ergonomics.
Definitely set you up for because I
look having a bunch of different buttons
even like I didn't want to hit,
I got real bored.
Even hitting that toggle to show or
not show an icon, right?
It became a lot easier at a certain point
to just dragging a button that has an icon
and then instance swap it out for
one that doesn't.
It's a little hard to make large
scale changes to all the buttons.
Yes.
But if you're using enough variables and
stuff like that, or you're really
fancy with your select all and
renaming and stuff like that,
you can make it work.
And that's typically what we ended up
doing even though we started down the path
of trying to overload variance
with everything possible.
So my advice to you is use them for
the simplest possible thing,
the more components you have and
you can search.
Naming is very important here,
but then it's easier.
Just drag in.
Like, could I have made this
a bunch of different variants?
I could have.
Did I.
At one point in my life, I did.
Did I regret it?
I did.
Right.
So just having a bunch and then kind of
doing the changes that you need to do.
Before variables,
you can make argument that it was
easier to just change those states.
I think after variables, just having
those things defined in variables and
tweaking those is a lot easier.